A version control is a system that helps developers to track changes and modifications to a code while storing these changes on a database. It is also known as source control and it helps developers to keep records of the changes and modifications made in cases where the developer or developers intend to revisit or make changes to previous versions of the code. It also helps developers to make changes on a project simultaneously without resulting to clashes in modifications made on the code.
Git is a type of version control system created in 2005 by Linus Torvalds. Git is a free and distributed open source version control system. It is distributed because the full history of the code is not stored in a central server. Rather, it gives every developer permission to keep copies of the history of the code in their local repositories. It also gives room for the creation of multiple local branches that are independent with its branching feature. It also gives room for developers to collaborate and review each others codes through pull requests. Git is the most popular version control system because it is free,fast and easy to use.
A github repository contains the files of a project and also serves as a storage for the changes made to each file in the project. To commit a project to a github repository, the developer must create a new repository on a github account. The developer can then proceed to create a local repository on a local device. This local repository must have the same project name with the repository created on github. Using an editor, the developer can then proceed to make changes, modifications, input commands and then commit the project. The developer can then push the local repository to the github repository.